>> Mike North: This was a challenging one
and let's go through the solution here.
All right, and
we have our little themes there.
So if we look at the HTML structure here,
>> Mike North: Basically
what we've got is,
a class that wraps a bunch of buttons.
So this is sort of a theme
applied from the outside, right?
And anything contained within this theme
should get it's colors by way of the fact
that, you know,
it is inside this thing with this class.
And you'll note that we have four types of
buttons and then primary and secondary,
again, are disabled.
Just to give you something visual,
some visual feedback as you
code to work on this exercise.
Furthermore, if we look in our
app as CSS file, you'll see that
I am already kind of setting up the way I
would like this theme to be structured.
And that, I want to basically be
completely enclosed within a mixin.
Called theme, and this is gonna
take what looks to be a color and
at least one other argument.
If I go to the mixins file.
>> Mike North: Where
our mixin is defined,
you can see that we've taken a color,
an angle of rotation, which has
to do with like the hue rotation.
It was the angle on the slide between the
primary color and one of the other colors.
And then finally,
a darken percentage that is used for
the non-primary buttons to
kind of darken them a little.
So they're not as vivid, as the primary
which is designed to stand out.
And our goal here is to get something
where we can use this in a generic way.
Where we could use this mixin to
turn out another theme that has
yellow as its primary color,
very easily, just using this mixin.
So we've defined it once, and instead of
just getting one theme out of it, we've
got something that builds a theme, in
terms of three things that we can adjust.
And we can build arbitrary
themes using these things.
So let's get started.
I'm actually not gonna end
up working much in app.scss.
I'm gonna close that and we'll just
end up working in this mixins file.
So the first thing I want to
do is define my three colors.
These are the three colors that
are not given to me, I'm given one,
that's my primary color just to be clear.
I'm given this one here, right.
And I need to calculate the colors for
button other,
button other two, button secondary, right?
So, let's go ahead and do that.
So, I'm gonna say,
other color is adjust to you and
that takes in the primary color,
and a rotation angle so
that's going to be rotate.
>> Mike North: Other color, too.
Actually all three of these
are gonna use adjust here.
Other color too is straight across
the color wheel from primary.
So that's 180 degree rotation.
>> Mike North: And then finally,
the secondary color is going to be.
>> Speaker 2: Do you need the deg?
Sorry.
>> Mike North: No, you do
not.
>> Speaker 2: Okay
>> Mike North: They're all numbers.
>> Speaker 2: I know you said that,
okay.
>> Mike North: No worries.
So a number is a number.
Deg is a good indication to everyone who
read this that this a hue.
Alright, so now we've got some colors
defined and I don't like to go for
too long without showing something up on
the screen, so that I can know that I'm on
the right track and
get some sort of visual feedback.
So I'm gonna go ahead and
create some classes for my buttons.
Knowing that this is going to be
used like directly inside a theme.
The parent selector isn't
really too valuable to me, so
I'm just gonna define my
button classes right away.
Btn-primary.
>> Mike North: And
btn-other2.
And each of these is
gonna get a background
color.
>> Mike North: And
the first one, primary is just
gonna be the primary color.
The second one here is
gonna be secondary color.
The third one is other color.
And then other two color finally.
>> Mike North: Clean
up our indents a little bit.
>> Mike North: And
save it, and you can already see that
we're starting to get a semblance
of a theme where we've defined once
like how this theme works in that there
are four colors involved and at an angle.
Is part of how we calculate this.
Furthermore, if we go back to our app.scss
and we change this to 90 degrees,
I would expect the buttons
in the top row to change.
And they did.
It was subtle, but
let's go back to 10 degrees.
And they changed a lot.
They're now very,
very close to the primary color,
right?
>> Mike North: We could go.
>> Speaker 2: Is this the same file?
What file is that?
>> Mike North: I'm in app.scss.
So this is where we're using the mixin.
This is where we're including it.
So if I go to 170 degrees,
you can see that I've got a green and
a red that's straight
across the color wheel.
And, sorry, it's a green and
a brownish thing.
And then the other two colors, other and
other two in secondary, they're all
clustered pretty close together because
that angle's very narrow, right?
So this serves to kind of control where
those wings of this theme's color
end up being on the color wheel.
So I'm gonna put it back to 100 and
we will keep on going.
So, that's step one, and
if I look here,
I'm gonna say that the border color,
I'm gonna work on these
requirements sort of in order.
So the border should be 20%
darker than the background color.
This should apply to all buttons.
So here like whenever you have
something like this it is a requirement
that is in terms of what I have
in my mixin as a variable, right.
Background color is a variable because
all four of my buttons are different on
a per theme basis, so
we can just create another mixin.
>> Mike North: You don't have
to do it this way.
You could have explicitly specified it.
So I'm just gonna call this bg.
>> Speaker 2: You mean just in the theme
parentheses and just said border whatever?
>> Mike North: You could have just gone
here and said border color,
and then something like
this.
>> Mike North: That
would have been totally fine, right?
But I'm going to go ahead and
break this out a little bit
more cuz we can.
>> Mike North: And
mostly, because that's
an indication to me if it like.
It's valuable to sort
of refactor this out.
It is something that is dynamic and
it's depending on something dynamic.
And now we can do,
>> Mike North: Like this.
We're basically gonna end up with this.
>> Mike North: All right, so
our theme has not changed much,
although you can see if I'm
looking closely at my screen.
We can zoom in here, let's see.
Come on browser.
So hopefully what we are in
fact seeing is a thin
dark green border around
a light green button.
So we have in fact used this background
as the border color and darkened it down.
So we're still staying in the world where
we can create a button of any color we
want or a theme of any combination
of parameters that we want.
But starting to look
a little bit more rich here.
>> Mike North: So then,
what I want to do is read
my other requirements here.
So the hover background should be 20%
more saturated than 10% lightened.
That is a terribly worded requirement,
I apologize for that.
So here's what I'm looking for.
>> Mike North: Background,
so saturate,
>> Mike North: And
then take that and lighten.
>> Mike North: By 10%.
And I don't even think that tests for
this but this was sort of there for
people who cared to do it.
And now you can see like when I hover over
this primary, that's a more obvious one.
Like that is a noticeably lighter
color there as I hover over it.
So now that's taking effect.
And I've reached the end of
the all button rows there.
Now I need to implement this,
the non primary buttons end up being
darkened by a certain percentage.
The way I am gonna address this,
>> Mike North: I
am just gonna have a slightly
different variable name.
So you can tell the difference
between what was defined where.
So darken percent is going to default to
20.
>> Mike North: As part of this button
base.
And here, for the primary only,
I'm going to pass 0.
So I've effectively given myself
that in all cases except primary,
20%.
>> Mike North: And now I can use it here.
>> Mike North: All right,
it looks like I have very
subtle color differences
here.
>> Mike North: Between what my
tests are asking for here,
it's the secondary one.
It is quite possible that I
have a mistake in my tests,
but let's see.
>> Mike North: Just
looking through this, yeah,
I'm gonna go with test mistake.
So I'm gonna update my tests,
I apologize for that.
People who are watching the video
of course, your test will pass.
People who are attending the live
workshop or the live stream.
Sorry [LAUGH],
so I'm just gonna go in here and
say the secondary background color
is incorrect so that's here.
And you know what it was, we just changed
the color theme around a little bit.
I'm just gonna compare that.
It's the same variables that we were using
in ap.scss that we're using down here.
So it was this one,
then this is for theme one,
we'll copy this in.
>> Mike North: And
other button background.
Another slightly different
one by a very subtle amount.
>> Mike North: Theme two.
>> Mike North: So secondary,
that's this one.
>> Mike North: This one.
And then this one here.
>> Mike North: This
is why testing CSS, this way is not ideal.
I was basically asserting that certain
color values were certain color values,
and it's a bunch of copy paste stuff.
All right, here we go.
Wait, here we go.
>> Mike North: Theme three,
secondary.
>> Mike North: And
these just got flipped.
>> Mike North: There we go.
Not a dramatic reveal, but what we do have
here now, the end result is pretty cool,
where we could do something like this.
Red, so now this red row here
that's the theme in terms of red.
We can darken it or we could do like coded
blue.
>> Mike North: Now we're using that blue.
We could start with like an orange.
And we have a way of kind of defining
a theme of nice, complementary colors.
Because these angles around the color
wheel like, if you talk to someone who
knows a lot more about color theory
than I do, this is a good way to pick
colors that tend to go together, and
to contrast well against each other.
And now we have as if a Sass
mixin that we can use that will
give us a set of colors for
an arbitrary couple of combinations.
So if you're building a product and you
need to do something like white label it
and someone gives you the primary
color of their business.
Like this is our logo color, use this.
You could then generate a theme just by
creating a new one of these
things really easily.
And this is a great example of one of
these complex, higher level mixins, right?